So, let's talk about lambda expressions.
To understand lambda expressions,
you must first understand their genesis.
Before lambda expressions, anonymous inner classes
were the feature that enabled you
to make your code more concise.
They did, and still do,
enable you to declare and instantiate a class
at the same time, and use methods on that class,
all within the same segment of code.
Anonymous classes are like local classes,
except that they do not have a name.
You'll use them if you need to use a local class only once.
One issue with anonymous classes is that
if the implementation of your anonymous class
is very simple, such as an interface
that contains only one method,
then the syntax of using an anonymous class
may seem unwieldy and unclear.
Lambda expressions replace the bulkiness
of anonymous inner classes.
So, let's start with an example of an anonymous class
compared to a named inner class.
So, you need to create a new project now,
which I've done and called Lambda Expressions,
and we need to create a class called Anonymous Test.
(computer keys clicking)
So, there's our code.
So, we've got a main method, as you can see,
an anonymous test.
I'm creating a local inner class
called LocalClass, which extends Object
and defines a method hello.
In comparison, I'm also creating
an anonymous class.
I've typed Object,
which overrides the toString method on Object.
Now, after the definition of the local class
and the anonymous class, I'm executing methods on both.
The local class needs instantiation,
you can see we're doing that on line 22,
and a call to the method, whereas the anonymous class
allows you to just reference it and its method.
Now, as we run this code now
you can we've got the output at the bottom of the screen.
So far, so good.
Let's now create an anonymous class based on an interface.
So, I'm gonna add some interface code to our source file,
and I'm just gonna put it above the main method, there.
So, there's our interface.
Now that I've done that, I'll add an anonymous class
to our main method that implements this interface
and also add some code, which actually instantiates it.
So, down here.
So I'll paste the code in.
Okay, so there's code.
Again, when you're creating an anonymous class,
it's a statement and not a declaration.
This one implements the Helloable interface
that we pasted at the top of the code, there,
the interface up there on line 10.
And I've got the code there
to call the Hello method on line 50.
Run this now.
You can see Hello Anonymous Class implementing Interface
is output.
All right, so let's create another method
on the Anonymous test class.
So, I'm gonna come down here and add it
after our main method closes.
You can see the code for this takes
as a parameter and object that implements Helloable
and then executes the Hello method.
What I wanna do now is add a sample
where we actually pass an anonymous class as a parameter
to this method.
So, I'm going to paste this code
after the last line in the main method.
And there it is.
So, again, what we're doing here
is we're passing an anonymous class
as a parameter to our method,
and we're actually calling the printHello method,
which was defined just below.
You can see it on the screen there now.
So, essentially what we're doing here
is we're making a call to the printHello method
and our parameter is an anonymous class.
To demonstrate that this is working, we'll run it.
You can see we've got the output
Hello Anonymous Class passed as a parameter.
So, you might agree at this point
that this is interesting and possibly slick,
but I think you'd also agree it's not very pretty.
So, finally, let's now call the same method printHello,
but using a lambda expression as a parameter.
Now, a lambda expression is possible here
because of the interface parameter.
Now, don't worry if you don't quite understand it yet
'cause we'll be going through this in detail.
In fact, in the next video I'll be discussing
the syntax of a lambda expression,
but for now we'll keep in mind
that a lambda expression is shorthand
for calling a method on an anonymous class
using a functional interface.
All right, so let's add some code now
to call this side method.
I'm gonna add it right at the end of the main method.
So, you can see now, line 68 is our lambda expression
where we're calling the printHello method.
We'll run this.
Hello Lambda Expression as a parameter
is output at the bottom.
All right, so that's the first basis
of using a lambda expression.
So, that's the end of the video here
now that we've actually seen a lambda expression's running.
In the next video,
we'll start looking at the syntax of a lambda expression,
but also talk more about, specifically, what they are
and how functional interfaces provide target types
for lambda expressions and method references.
See you in the next video.